.. highlight:: rst

.. index::
   single: S3

S3 access
=======================

**S3** access is very similar to **HTTP** access. The **MGM** runs on port 8000
and the **FSTs** on port 8001.

The workflow is the same as with other protocols.
The initial point of contact is the MGM which will generate a redirection link
to communicate with the FST.


User Mapping
-------------

When accessing EOS via S3, a signature verification is done.
If the verification succeeds, from this point forward, the S3 access key
will be considered the user identity and the system will try to match it
with an existing Unix user. Because of this, it is very important
that the users declared for S3 access also exist as Unix users on the system.


Configuration
-------------

Within the S3 protocol, users are identified by an access key and secret key pair.
Buckets are associated to users and they constitute the place
where users write or read from.

Within EOS, users and buckets are registered as attributes of the
``/eos/instance/proc`` path.

To register users:
++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: bash

   attr set sys.s3.id.<s3user>=<secretkey> /eos/<instance>/proc

*<s3user>* - the access key in S3 terminology

Note: make sure that the <s3user> also exists as a unix user on the system

To register buckets:
++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block:: bash

   attr set sys.s3.bucket.<s3user>=<bucket> /eos/<instance>/proc
   attr set sys.s3.path.<bucket>=<eospath> /eos/<instance>/proc

Multiple buckets can be separated using the | separator.

Example
++++++++

.. code block:: bash

   attr set sys.s3.id.s3user=<secretkey> /eos/test/proc
   attr set sys.s3.bucket.s3user=testbucket /eos/test/proc
   attr set sys.s3.path.testbucket=/eos/test/buckets3 /eos/test/proc

This will declare *s3user* and assign *testbucket* to him.
Internally, *testbucket* is mapped to the following path: /eos/test/buckets3.
